# REACT APOLLO PRISMA GRAPHQL MYSQL LOGIN APP

The goal of this project was to be used as base to write a series of articles [on my blog](https://radinax.github.io/React-Personal-Blog-Gatsby/) which goes step by step, from theory to building the server and client sides of this application which consists in performing GET and POST requests using GraphQL.

We used Apollo on the client side which is a state management library like Redux but much simple to use. It works similar in that you need to add a Provider and instead of passing a store, you pass a new client which has information about the URL you'll be performing requests to.

Said URL is generated by Prisma on the Backend, we first use [graphql-yoga](https://github.com/prisma-labs/graphql-yoga) to generate out schema, the typeDefs and resolvers, then we use Prisma to hook up our code with the database, in this case MySQL.

To Perform POST requests we need to make the appropiate configuration in our schema, in this case we defined a **post** keyword which we use on the client side to perform the requests.

## Folder structure

- client
- prisma
    - datamodel.prisma
    - prisma.yml
- src
    - generated
    - resolvers
        - Link.js
        - Mutation.js
        - Query.js
        - Subscription.js
        - User.js
    - index.js
    - schema.graphql
    - utils.js

Inside our prisma folder we add the necessary data model which is similar to the schema.graphql file  and inside the prisma.yml we add the required information so when use the command **prisma deploy** it can generate our endpoint and with prisma generate it makes the files to connect Prisma to a database, in this case MySQL.

Inside our resolvers file we add the necesary functions to say how the respective query, mutation, subscription will behave when it recieves it from the client.

## Conclusion

This was a very productive application, it made me learned about how to create a login application with apollo, prisma, graphql, mysql and react. There are also couple things I like to mention:

- Graphql is indeed much faster to write than REST apps with Redux and Node, its simple to use too.
- Resolvers are very obscure to write, there isn't much information in how to write them, you basically instantiate them through the context parameter but on more complicated cases it can prove a bit of a pain without consulting in Github or Stackoverflow.
- I need to make another guided project in order to grasp the concepts, especially the resovlers.
- So far I highly prefer REST, its simple to understand, a bit more verbose which isn't a bad thing but it makes everything more compact, especially when used with Redux.

**Made by Eng Adrian Beria**
